# chores_webapp
#### Video Demo:  [<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7u9UQeF0L18>]
#### Description:
A webapp for parents/guardians to post and manage chores with a credits-reward system. Admin accounts can post chores with respective credits value, as well as post rewards in the shop, each with a credits cost. User accounts can claim chores, and admins can verify when the chore has been completed in real life and the app will award the appropriate credits to the user.The reason behind this project is for personal use since I live with many family members and I thought we needed a system that can make chore distribution fairer (and with incentives). 

I opted to use python, flask, sqlite and html for this project because I had already gotten exposed to these technologies prior in the course, and the knowledge was still fresh in my mind. Having a webapp in this format makes it highly accessible to anyone who wants to participate. Originally, I was planning to host the webapp on a server that can run all the time, but I had problems with the database so I will have to revisit that sometime later. For the demo, I ran flask on my local device. 

As for the format of my files, I have a typical lineup for a flask webapp: app.py, database, and a templates folder with all the html webpages. I also opted for a helpers.py file but I did not use it except for a function that checks if a user/admin are logged in or not. As for the database technology, I opted for sqlite as this is a very small scale project and I wanted to simplify it as much as possible to make sure everything runs smoothly before expanding on it. It should still be fairly scalable. For that, I chose to import cs50's SQL library.

In app.py, I first have the imported libraries: flask functions, flask_login, cs50 sql, and werkzeug for hashing passwords. After that, I setup the flask app variable and the sql statements to make the tables in the database by utilizing 'if not exists' in the create table sql command. The rest of the functions are the homepage, signups for both admin and user, logins for both admin and user, add chore, add reward, store, and logout. 

In order to give feedback to the user when something goes wrong, I used 'flash' to flash messages. For example, when creating an account and the username field is empty or if the passward confirmation is not the same as the password etc.. 

Regarding the html files, I started with layout.html to use as a blueprint for the rest of the pages. I used bootstrap 4 to implement a navbar that will show up in all the webpages. I used 'session' from flask to work the logic of what shows up on the navbar depending on who is logged in (admin or user or neither). For example, 'logout' only shows up when someone is logged in, and 'add rewards' only shows up when an admin is signed up etc. 

Overall, I am happy with how the webapp turned out to be and I think it is very usable in its current state but it will require more polish with more features. The biggest issue is the usage of cs50's SQL instead of MONGODB or PostgreSQL because it is not practical to host this webapp on an external server without hosting the database alongside with it. With regards to more features, I think admin accounts should have more control over the users, so for example they should be able to see everyone's credits etc. Also, not anyone should be able to make an admin account. Adding a secret code that is required when making an admin account is one solution (that secret code would be shared with the parents in real life). Finally, I would like to incorporate Javascript and more CSS to make the webapp look neater and more presentable. 